# Product-Recommender-System

# Abstract:
In today's modern epoch of information technology, the idea of efficiently finding one's favourite product in a large dataset of application database, becomes an essential issue to address for the online content providers in order to attract the masses as opposed to their competitors. Recommender systems or recommendation systems, as they are popularly known, are information filtering systems which are usually integrated with several consumer and commercial applications. Such systems act as a bridge between various content facilitators such as social media websites, e-commerce portals, streaming platforms, etc. and the users of these applications, by suggesting them items from the application database which conform to the user preferences and past activities. Such personalized systems play a vital role, especially when the user is unclear of the item to the searched for. These systems are infiltrating every aspect of our lives, in the form of ?Because you watched? header on Netflix, ?People you may know? section on Facebook, ?Customers who bought this also bought' partition on Amazon.

# Problem Analysis:
Amazon uses recommendations as a targeted marketing tool in both email campaigns and on most of its websites pages. Amazon will recommend many products from different categories based on what you are browsing and pull those products in front of you which you are likely to buy. Like the ‘frequently bought together’ option that comes at the bottom of the product page to lure you into buying the combo. This recommendation has one main goal: increase average order value i.e., to up-sell and cross-sell customers by providing product suggestions based on the items in their shopping cart or below products they’re currently looking at on-site.

Amazon uses browsing history of a user to always keep those products in the eye of the customer. It uses the ratings and reviews of customers to display the products with a greater average in the recommended and best selling option. Amazon wants to make you buy a package rather than one product. Say you bought a phone, it will then recommend you to buy a case or a screen protector. It will further use the recommendations from the engine to email and keep you engaged with the current trend of the product/ category.
